[Music]
hello this is day one of teaching Truman
to fetch visit the train cars law comm
for more information the way I'm gonna
be teaching Truman affection let me hold
this ball I'm gonna hold the cup
underneath and let him drop it in to
award him he doesn't know this is what
I'm trying to get him to do yet
eventually I'll stop rewarding him when
he drops it knock me up and I will
reward him when he drops it in the cup
so that's how he's gonna learn that
that's what I wanted him to hold his cup
under the ball so when he drops it I'm
gonna catch it and then the good boy
trim and very good good boy
Truman very good I'm starting out with
the very large bowl so there's less
chance that you can miss but as we
progress I'm going to work down a
smaller bowl very good Truman good boy
Truman touch
good boy Truman verge
right now Truman just wants to play with
the ball but he's going to start
learning then when he starts dropping
into the copies and get his treat good
boy a good thing too by using a round
ball for getting fetch not only does he
give them extra hands to grip the ball
by but it's slippery so it's more likely
to drop it sooner him piece of wood or
something else I'll be showing it for 10
20 minutes before they'll drop it and
give it back to you fetch I ignore
Truman if he drops the ball not into the
Sun gonna try again fetch pretty touch
key fetch
good bird key very good Truman you
watching what you got to do change the
objects around so when he gets too much
interest in a certain object I'm gonna
change it to something else sir if you
lose his interest just the same he was
getting too interested in the ball he
was getting good at holding it so I want
to give her something different so he'll
end up dropping it fetch
right now the main goal is to get him
used to the fact that he's got to hold
an object but when presented with the
bolded drop good boy
in the fetch you almost got it but you
missed the bullseye you can't get a tree
for that
fetch good boy
Truman very good good job this is day
two of teaching Truman how to fetch
fetch
good boy looks like Truman forgot that
he has to drop the ball in the cup but
we're gonna work on that
good boy Truman very good this is a
session 3 of teaching Truman how to
fetch fetch fetch fetch
betch good boy truman very good German
fetch German fetch good boy Truman very
good I'm starting to see a positive
reaction from Truman and C session
making steps to pick up the object and
also making steps to in the direction of
the bowl to drop the quarter into the
bowl so he's definitely starting to
figure out that he's got to hold it and
that the bowl is where it has to end up
his motivation to drop the object is
very because he just prefers to play
with it but we're gonna work on that and
as long as he wants to trade more than
to play with the object he'll he'll get
better at fetch so as long as I let him
handle this these objects more and more
he'll get bored of him and he'll prefer
to fetch them into the bowl so you could
get his treat from the fetch wave boy
sometimes they mix up old tricks along
with new ones to keep him focused and it
also helps me gauge his motivation he
starts performing poorly on new tricks
and old tricks means he's not motivated
he's only performing poorly on the new
trick but he still performs the old ones
eagerly that means that maybe he's not
understanding something that I wanted to
do fetch Truman fetch Hey fetch fetch
fetch good boy
I'm introducing some differential
reinforcement for Truman I'm doing is he
likes to play with the ball but he likes
to chew a walnut shell even more so what
I'm doing is I'm tempting him to drop
the ball and give up the fun of playing
with it into the bowl and return for a
walnut shell which is even more fun to
play with so I'm using his differential
reinforcement to have give up the toy
that he already enjoys for an even
better - way
good boy
very good did a bit of a change of
direction there but he still over gained
that and followed the bowl and dropped
the coin specifically in the bowl
he's clearly learning what to do here
good boy
I can see Truman following the bowl to
drop the coin and some much more
convinced that he knows what I'm trying
to get him to do I wanted to
that's the coin she carry it to the bowl
[Music]